You need to add in some scoring into the game as well as a way to end the game.
So we know that we've got once we've got a collision.
That's when the game is over.
So starting out with the scoring let's update and add in the score for the game.
We've got already got a score element on the page and we've already connected it to a value of score
and within the player setup.
I'm also going to set up a value of score set as default.
And then when we start the game what I want to do as well is take that value and set it to Player Score
is going to be equal to zero.
So this is our starting position of the game.
So once the game is in play every time we loop through I want to update the score.
So every time we're do running through that function play game.
Before we conclude I want to update the score.
So let's add that value in so that's Player Score and we're going to increase it by 1 and then using
the score object we're going to update that inner text of that element to equal whatever the value of
Player Score is.
So try that.
And we see that we've got our score calculating their ad in a little bit of styling for that score.
So background color and we'll set that background color to be black also.
Let's set up a height for that.
So height of and text align center text align that value and also we need to actually see the score.
So let's update the color of the score to be white.
So there we've got our score value.
And that's always increasing.
And we can also update that to say score to make it more evident what it is that we're putting there.
So as we're playing the game score and increasing the player's score else you're going to make the text
a little bit bigger as well.
And of course you can style this as needed so just some default styling.
And also I was like to add in the font family so we could then as fantasy so we've got our escort score
ever increasing in value.
And then once we hit the collision that's where we want to stop the game let's stop all of the gameplay
and we do have a function in order to handle the end game.
So let's create that.
So end game function.
So we've got our hit and at this point we want to end the game so when we start the game ending the
game is going to be fairly opposite to that.
So we're just going to build that down here where we've got the start button so function and game generate
that end of the game.
So player start is now going to be false so it's going to stop the looping and we've got that animation
frame so it's going to stop it from continuously looping through.
So try that and make sure that we do have a way of ending the game.
So that's our essentially our game ending part there.
We can also update our message so our score and in our HD Himmel can say game over and I do a line break
their score was and then whatever the value of score is going to be.
And that's again hold held in Player Score.
So we've got our score score was 1 0 4.
And game over.
So we've got all of the messaging that we need.
I'm gonna make this a little bit bigger because it looks like it's running out of the overlap there.
So the score again although just that slightly and sometimes that is the case where you do need to make
adjustments at.
So now what I want to do is I want to add the ability to start the game once again and we can do this
in a number of ways that we want to have the ability to initiate again a brand new start screen and
I'm going to create a button in order to accomplish that so we can add that into our score area or we
could simply add that on top of I'll take our start screen that we hid when we press the start button
and instead of hiding it we're going to remove that class of height so we'll have our start screen once
again.
So once we have our collision we get our welcome message again and I want to update some of the styling
for that.
I do a margin auto so that it centers the content and for that we also need a width as well.
So it's set it to 300 picks.
Try that at welcome message and see what happens we'll get a collision.
So there we go.
We've got our welcome message again sharks showing up there instead a welcome message.
And so there we go.
So we've got all of our gameplay and all of our score and our information being output into our so go
in and add this end game function into your game and we should also have a way to start the game again.
And as you can see it's not really starting well.
So that means that we need to remove quite a few elements when we hit the start game just to make sure
that everything is emptied out.
So going into our start game and we're gonna take care of this in the upcoming lesson so that we can
actually restart the game by clicking the button and we've got a few things that aren't working exactly
as needed.
So to take care of those in the upcoming lessons.
So it's still to come.